---
layout: post
title: My IT Setup #2
---
In this second article of the series I'm offering some updated **insides** into how my **technical setup as a professional Software Developer and IT enthusiast** looks like. 
The use of many tools is very opinion based and so my recommendations can be considered subjective.

# Moving to immutable operating systems

## Part 1: Linux for gaming and more
If you read my first article about [how my IT setup looks like]({% link 2024-02-19-it-setup.md %}), then you probably noticed that my workflow is rather unusual for a rolling release Linux distro.
Relying for software mostly on **Flatpak** and **Distrobox**, is a choice rarely made on an Arch based distribution.
This combination had a specific reason: I was super interested in immutable Linux distributions, however I was not sure how far I would come with the restrictions such operating systems bring.
Anyhow I was running pretty much every single application through Flatpak already. Only few applications and drivers, mostly related to gaming, I installed as native packages and from the AUR respectively.
Besides, I wanted an up-to-date system, using the latest KDE desktop and the latest drivers and therefore Arch (EndeavourOS) was a good fit.

When I recently was forced to reinstall my OS, I just gave it a shot and installed the immutable distribution **Bazzite** instead - an adapted version of the **Fedora Kinoite** image by Universal Blue focused on gaming. It brings the KDE desktop environment which I prefer, but they offer Gnome as a choice as well.
I had serious doubts that the installation would last for long on my PC. Besides the restrictions I expected troubles getting used to Fedora, as I was used to Debian and Arch based distros.
But here's the thing: The Bazzite image in specific turned out so perfectly pre-configured for my needs that I didn't need to deep-dive into the inner workings of Fedora (and its atomic distributions) at all.
I'm able to get all additionally needed applications, be it for software development or productivity tasks as Flatpaks. For CLI tools I'm using the preconfigured **Homebrew**, which I earlier knew only from macOS.

**The PC running Linux serves me nowadays mostly for gaming**, but also for occasional productivity tasks. If you're considering switching to an immutable distribution I can only recommend to getting used to things like Flatpak first. Then check if there is a fitting image for your main use case e.g. from Fedora or Universal Blue. E.g. if I would setup a PC for mostly software development I would probably choose the Aurora Ublue image instead of Bazzite, although Bazzite works great for software development too.
Bazzite (with KDE) has become my absolute favorite OS and I can only recommend to give immutable distros a try!

## Part 2: MacOS for productivity
While I was stating in my first article that I would use MacOS only for work, meanwhile I use MacOS as my main workstation for daily productivity tasks as well. MacOS is still running my machine for work, where I use it for software development. But now coming back to my private usage of MacOS: I switched to MacOS even though I still favor Linux over MacOS. So why? Well, I learnt that for my use cases the Macbooks meanwhile offer such great performance that powering up my PC instead would just be a waste of energy. The Apple ARM processors are just super competitive in regards of power consumption. The operating system has some getting used to things for me, however here what made the switch possible for me: The extended usage of **Homebrew**. I was used to Homebrew for CLI apps, however what about GUI apps? There are no Flatpaks for MacOS. My choice fell towards **Homebrew Cask** as source of my GUI applications. With this I can manage pretty much all applications I need through Homebrew on the command line - be it for CLI or GUI apps. Pretty much like on Linux. Sometimes I do miss the KDE Plasma desktop environment, but MacOS has some interesting features too, like Stage Manager which helps not having dozens of application windows overlapping each other. I don't use it permantently though.

**MacOS became my daily driver for software development and productivity**. I like some of its features (e.g. how it integrates with other Apple devices) and I dislike others. But overall I'm going to continue my MacOS journey. 

## That's it for now
Again, if you're courious about something else, then feel free to send me a [message](/contact)!